Despite doing this for a while, it has only crossed my mind now to begin a log. This is what I would consider my first true Javascript project - while I have done simple programs such as Fizzbuzz, and a website colour designer, this manipulates harder concepts such as OOP, modules and (eventually) NPM.
I decided to do this project, incidentally, because of wanting to learn new things: OOP in Javascript was a foreign world for me, as were modules and SCSS (or Sass as it is also called). It most definitely has helped me with this, but I have encountered numerous hardships along the way: as I begin on true functionality for the StopWatch class, I have decided to begin a log to describe my thoughts of the project, the hardships, and the general reasons why I did things this way. Despite moslty being small problems that someone more experienced would probably have solved quickly (or not made), I found that this project definitely served to stretch my Javascript skills.

### An OverView of the Past (before StopWatch):

Considering my previously described wont to learn more of Javascript, I settled on a Clocks module (or to be module), in which I would manipulate different things to, with the end product, deliver varieties of clocks and chronological devices such as Stopwatches and Timers.
From my knowledge of Object-Orientated Progamming (OOP) with Python, it seemed the sensible idea to do this was Javascript. Rather than use a tutorial, I have manipulated the Javascript documents throughout, rather than more tutorials. This has, I think, ingrained the learning more deeply in my mind. I am extrmely glad that I did choose OOP, too.
Looking back, this has allowed me to make it much more expandable: however, I have run into hardships even with this.
Being an amateur developer at this stage, there may have been better ways to combat these: but combat them I did, despite times in which they seemed impossible.
The first problem I encountered was the matter of inheritance: in my design for initialising the clock, I failed to note that, in the future, I would need to rewrite the entirety of the method. I considered the options, but settled to remain with what I had: little editing was required after a copy and paste.
The second, was the fact that, in order to keep the modularity, I would have to make it slightly harder for developers to access my module. In having the necessary methods called from the constructor, this would lead to impossible calls in child classes. So, the simple first clock would have to be initialised with 2 lines, calling a seperate function to initialise. This did, however, allow me to have all my others as 1-line only calls in the testing file.

Despite planning on making this into a module, I also wanted to expand my knowledge of other things in Javascript/relating too: specifically, SCSS and Prettier. I now have both installed, and though the use of the former may need a bit more time to patch with creating the module, it has allowed me to explore realms of front-end development I have not considered before.

## Onwards

Today, the 5th of July 2022, I write regarding my new StopWatch class, of which I currently have the seconds only working. I hope to add full functionality to it within a few weeks, before moving on to the timer.
Due to my inexperience, I am in a constant state of learning (or hopeful exploration). A major problem was encountered today, in which functions called from the 'addEventListener()' could only access with 'this.' whatever was in the element.
Rather, I wished to access my 'UI' which contained inherited variables for the digits of the clock. I was also using an anonymous function in the 'setInterval' method (because others had not worked, and I required a 1 second gap between incrementing the counter).
After a few hours of horror, I finally found within the docs why this was (for at the time I did not realise the limitations of 'this.'). I quickly changed the constructor to bond 'this.' to my 'updateClock' method, so I could access 'UI'. I then fell into the other problem: despite being able to access it in my (named) update method, the anonymous method in 'setInterval' could not: and this was what needed it. Luckily, I stumbled across the answer accidentally, while trying many things: a local variable in the outer function, that was assigned the value of 'UI' could then be access in the anonymous one for use.
I write off today, and hope that there is smoother sailing ahead. While I do not expect others to read this, or even ever hear of this module, I find that it would be interesting to look back on my mistakes and learning. If there is anyone reading this, thank you, I hope you enoy my learning journey!! I will write back another day.

## Continuing 'StopWatch'

The first problem that I encountered was the fact that my stopwatch was not, in fact, keeping time very well. In using the simpler 'setInterval()' function, I lacked the precision due to device problems. Instead, I had to revert to the previous idea of using the 'Date' object and calculating the change between the time of start and new time, every 10 milliseconds to prevent lag (hopefully): this may be a problem when I need to make the pause functionality, but hopefully that will be easily remedied - possibly by calculating the new change in time and adding it on.

The second was even more simple to fix, being that in using the 'slice' or 'substring' methods to get the other seconds digit, I would recieve the last 2 digits from my counter. My knowledge with Python proved troublesome here, as I could not just select the second to last digit, considering it as an array, as you can in Python. Instead, I had to use the 'substring' method and select a stop point.

This then led to a problem that my second to last digit would count up to 10, rather than 6. To fix this I subtracted 6 if it became greater than that, as it would only ever go up to 9 for that digit.

15/07/2023
After some more rigorous testing, it seems that the seconds was not in fact working: something I failed to see was that, given a large number of seconds, the penultimate digit would always be substracted, even if this was not required as it were an integer minute. I have, however, found a much simpler way that I shall use in the future, and maybe change my old code too later: in inputting the milliseconds (under the variable delta, change) into a 'Date' object, I could then get the seconds automatically and then use the substring method in order to get the required digit. This did return null until it reaches one, so I added a conditional statement to set it to 0 until it became such. This is a perfect reason for my log! Having little experience with the object before, I hadn't realised that this could be done so easily, but this simplifies matters greatly for the future, for hours and such.

I have now changed for this minutes, too, having encountered the same problem. It has saved several lines of code, and I am thankful that I now know of it.

A perfect example of human fallability just happened to me: I thought that somehow I could not access the interval's value in order to stop it. In fact, I could - but I had mistyped the line to bond the classes' 'this' to it, so that it could not recieve it and it was undefined. A most irksome moment that I spent several hours pondering on, before finding this bothersome but fortunate truth!
 
Considering my options for keeping the clock's previous time when continuing, I believe I should be able to do it relatively simply by updating the UI array with the current digits, then totalling it and adding it to the change in time. I have also thought that I will change it to 'requestAnimationFrame' for ease of use. This will be done later.

After completing this, I note that the digits also needed to be converted into their respective seconds and then milliseconds for use with the date. This does lead to a bit of lag for the timer, as it will always 'reset' to a specific time and lose however many milliseconds. This isn't of much importance as the timer isn't meant to be perfect. It may be considered later. The main functionality is as a pure stopwatch, rather than being able to be stopped at key points.

26/07/2023
I have now added the clear button, which works well. Despite still having problems with adding on the millisecond (and testing yields no answers) I believe the first stage of the 'library' is now complete. I will plan future functionality later. It is now my wish to transfer this to a new repository to begin to deploy it to NPM as an EcmaScript module. I will however keep this updated.